---
title: 原文
tags: 新建,模板,小书匠
grammar_cjkRuby: true
---
+Kidnapping robot problem. This question is a variant of global positioning Problem, but harder. During operation, the robot can be kidnapped and moved to another location. Kidnapping robot problem Is more difficult than the global localization problem, because the robot may be Believe it knows where it is not. Localization in the world, there are robots Know it does not know where it is. People may think that robots are few Was kidnapped in practice . But the actual importance of the problem arises. From most of the most advanced positioning algorithms can not be observed Guarantee never fail. The ability to recover from failure is critical The autonomous robot has tested the localization algorithm by kidnapping The ability to recover from the failure of global localization.

### Static Versus Dynamic Environments
A second dimension that has a substantial impact on the difﬁculty of localization isthe environment. Environments can be static or dynamic.
+ Static environments. Static environments are environments where the only vari-able quantity (state) is the robot’s pose. Put differently, only the robot moves instatic environment. All other objects in the environments remain at the same lo-cation forever. Static environments have some nice mathematical properties thatmake them amenable to efﬁcient probabilistic estimation
+ Dynamic environments. Dynamic environments possess objects other than therobot whose location or conﬁguration changes over time. Of particular interestare changes that persist over time, and that impact more than a single sensorreading. Changes that are not measurable are of course of no relevance to local-ization, and those that affect only a single measurement are best treated as noise(cf. Chapter 2.4.4). Examples of more persistent changes are: people, daylight(for robots equipped with cameras), movable furniture, or doors. Clearly, mostreal environment are dynamic, with state changes occurring at a range of differentspeeds

Obviously, localization in dynamic environments is more difﬁcult than localization instatic ones. There are two principal approaches for accommodating dynamics: First,dynamic entities might be included in the state vector. As a result, the Markov as-sumption might now be justiﬁed, but such an approach carries the burden of additionalcomputational and modeling complexity; in fact, the resulting algorithm becomes ef-fectively a mapping algorithm. Second, in certain situations sensor data can be ﬁlteredso as to eliminate the damaging effect of unmodeled dynamics. Such an approach willbe described further below in Section 8.4

### Passive Versus Active Approaches
A third dimension that characterizes different localization problems pertainsto thefact whether or not the localization algorithm controls the motion ofthe robot. Wedistinguish two cases:
+ Passive localization. In passive approaches, the localization module only ob-serves the robot operating. The robot is controlled through some other means,and the robot’s motion is not aimed at facilitating localization. For example, therobot might move randomly or perform its everyday’s tasks
+ Active localization. Active localization algorithms control the robot so astominimize the localization error and/or the costs arising from moving a poorlylocalized robot into a hazardous place

Active approaches to localization typically yield better localization results than passiveones. We already discussed an examples in the introduction to this book: coastalnavigation. A second example situation is shown in Figure 7.2. Here the robot islocated in a symmetric corridor, and its belief after navigating the corridor for a whileis centered at two (symmetric) poses. The local symmetry of the environment makesit impossible to localize the robot while in the corridor. Only if it moves into a roomwill it be able to eliminate the ambiguity and to determine its pose. It is situations likethese where active localization gives much better results: Instead of merely waitinguntil the robot incidentally moves into a room, active localization can recognize theimpasse and send it there directly

However, a key limitation of active approaches is that they require control over therobot. Thus, in practice, an active localization technique alone tends to be insufﬁ-cient: The robot has to be able to localize itself even when carrying out some othertask than localization. Some active localization techniques are built on top of a pas-sive technique. Others combine tasks performance goals with localization goals whencontrolling a robot

This chapter exclusively considers passive localization algorithms. We will returnto the issue of active localization in Chapter ?? of this book, where we will presentprobabilistic algorithms for robot control.

### Single-Robot Versus Multi-Robot

A fourth dimension of the localization problem is related to the number of robotsinvolved.

+ Single-robot localization. The most commonly studied approach to localizationdeals with a single robot only. Single robot localization offers the conveniencethat all data is collected at a single robot platform, and there is no communicationissue.
+ Multi-robot localization. The localization problem naturally arises to teams ofrobots. At ﬁrst glance, each robot could localize itself individually, hence themulti-robot localization problem can be solved through single-robot localization.If robots are able to detect each other, however, there is the opportunity to dobetter. This is because one robot’s belief can be used to bias another robot’s beliefif knowledge of the relative location of both robots is available. The issue ofmulti-robot localization raises interesting, non-trivial issues on the representationof beliefs and the nature of the communication between them.

These four dimensions capture the four most important characteristics of the mobilerobot localization problem. There exist a number of other characterizations that impactthe hardness of the problem, such as the information provided by robot measurementsand the information lost through motion. Also, symmetric environments are moredifﬁcult than asymmetric ones, due to the higher degree of ambiguity. We will nowlook at speciﬁc algorithms and discuss their applicability to the different localizationproblems as deﬁned thus far.

## MARKOV LOCALIZATION

Probabilistic localization algorithms are variants of the Bayes ﬁlter. The straightfor-ward application of Bayes ﬁlters to the localization problem is called Markov lo-calization. Table 7.1 depicts the basic algorithm. This algorithm is derived fromthe algorithm Bayesﬁlter (Table 2.1 on page 24). Notice that Markov localizationalso requires a map m as input. The map plays a role in the measurement modelp(zt| xt, m) (Line 4). It often, but not always, is incorporated in the motion modelp(xt| ut, xt−1, m) as well (Line 3). Just like the Bayes ﬁlter, Markov localizationtransforms a probabilistic belief at time t − 1 into a belief at time t. Markov localiza-tion addresses the global localization problem, the position tracking problem, and thekidnapped robot problem in static environments.
p(xt| ut, xt−1, m) as well (Line 3). Just like the Bayes ﬁlter, Markov localizationtransforms a probabilistic belief at time t − 1 into a belief at time t. Markov localiza-tion addresses the global localization problem, the position tracking problem, and thekidnapped robot problem in static environments.
The initial belief, bel(x0), reﬂects the initial knowledge of the robot’s pose. It is setdifferently depending on the type of localization problem
Position tracking. If the initial pose is known, bel(x0) is initialized by a point-mass distribution. Let ¯x0denote the (known) initial pose. Then
　

